Tuesday, April 11, 2022
====================
## Interview Bootcamp
For our last week together, we will be covering concepts that you'll want to know for interviews, do whiteboarding, and behavioral preparation. Some concepts will be abstract and others will not. Let's get started.

# Data Structures
Data structures are ways of storing data on your computer. There are many popular data structures to be tested on in a coding interview. We'll go over a few, including:
  1. Linked Lists
  2. Arrays
  3. Stacks
  4. Queues
  5. Trees


### Linked Lists and Arrays
- Both of these data structures keep track of elements and keep things in order. The implementation of keeping that order is different.
- Linked Lists **do not** keep track of index. Arrays **do** keep track of index.
- Linked Lists are lists of objects (nodes) that are attached to each other. Each node has a value and a pointer to the next node
- Accessing an element in an array is O(1) / constant time because arrays keep track of indexes. Accessing an element in a linked list is O(n) / linear time because there is no index so you would need to traverse the list to get what you want

**Linked Lists**
- Used to store a collection of items. These items are generally called Nodes.
- Each item in a linked list has 2 attributes
  1. **data** - the content it's holding
  2. **next** - a pointer to the next item
- In general, linked lists go in one direction but not in the other
  - Doubly linked lists go in both directions. In that case, they have 3 attributes:
    1. **data** - the content it's holding
    2. **next** - a pointer to the next item
    3. **previous** - a pointer to the previous item
- Insertion/Removal from Linked Lists can be O(1) in it's best case scenario (i.e., adding to the front), O(n) in it's worst case scenario (i.e., adding to the back in a regular linked list)

**Arrays**
- We're already familiar with arrays. It's a data structure that holds elements (data) and it keeps track of order using indexes
- When you create an array, your computer looks for sequential memory addresses that have nothing in them. It'll reserve those sequential memory addresses so that you can put things in them. The reason behind lookups being O(1) is because your computer knows where the array starts. If you give it the index of the element you're looking for, it'll just add that number to the start of the array's memory address and get the element. Mathematical operators are O(1).
- Arrays are not efficient with insertion/deletion because once you delete an element or add an element somewhere (other than the end), you have to move/copy all other elements back or forward, meaning that it takes O(n) time in the worst-case scenario


### Stacks And Queues
Both of these abstract data types (i.e., you don't really ever use the Stack or Queue class in programming) are linear data structures (one thing comes after another) which are flexible with sizing.

**Stacks**
- Last in, first out (LIFO)
- Think of a stack of plates in your cupboard or a stack of pancakes
  - The last plate you stack is the first one you take out
  - The last pancake you stack is the first one you take off to eat

**Queues**
- First in, first out (FIFO)
- Think of a line of people waiting in line. The first person who showed up is the first person served
- Queues are made of many nodes. Nodes are a data structure with a value (the thing it contains) and a pointer to the next node.
- In a queue, you add things to the tail (end) of the list and remove things from the head (front) of the list
  - `Enqueue` is the term when you add to the end and `Dequeue` is the term when you remove from the beginning
- There's a concept of a **Deque**
  - Double ended queue
  - A queue that goes both ways. You can enqueue or dequeue from either end

### Trees
- Data structure with a **root** (top) node that breaks out into other nodes, called **child** nodes. If a child node has no children, then it's called a **leaf** node as it stops at the leaf.
- Most of the time when we talk about trees, we talk about binary trees
  - A binary tree is a tree where each node has no more than 2 child nodes, a left node and a right node, one of which could be null
