Saturday, April 15, 2022
==========================
# Graduation Day!

## General Interview Notes

**Behavioral**
- Be you. People may not be able to read BS right away, but they can certainly tell if you're a genuine person
- Practice your behavioral interview questions a lot. You'll get a lot of variations of the questions we did in class but overall, you should have the basics of the answer.
- Know your resume very well
- Be able to speak on your personal and group projects
- Have good questions to ask at the end of the interview
- The key thing that senior engineers are looking for is passion. That passion should come through in your voice and your answer. If you have it, amp it up. If you don't, practice lying.

**Technical**
1. Ask questions to define the scope of the problem you've been assigned
  - For example if you've been asked to sort a list of numbers, clarify if the numbers are positive or negative. Ask if it's just integers or if it includes floats. Are there non-integer elements in your array? How large is it?
2. Spit off your thought process and if you have an idea of the space or time complexity, talk about it. If you're not comfortable with these topics, either get better at them or leave it off your interview.
3. Implement a terrible solution and WRITE CODE. Do not get to the end of the interview without writing code!
4. Test your terrible solution with a...
  - Small valid input
  - Large valid input
  - Small invalid input
  - Large invalid input
4. Optimize
  - Ask your interviewer what they'd like for you to optimize
